---
layout: default
title: summary2017
---

## summary of my 2017

------

2017 is so flat for me, and seems having little interesting things to record this year.

I think the most pleasant thing for me is DaisyWangsi coming into my life, and we have got familiar with each other one year a least, we keep communication almost every day and a message from her become a part of life everyday.

As a programmer, keep on learning every day is necessary, and i think my performance is not too bad in the last one year, 20 books was finished reading.
And i tried to learn golang, lua, though not got so skilled, actually i only spend one week to learn each, and read some pieces of source code, and then i can do something using the new language.  while learning a new language i think the most import thing you should do is to try to understand and taste the new programming idom it imported . Most part of languages is essentially identical except the new feature it imported, and that is what we should taste and learn.

As a backend system programmer, system knowledge is quit important to grasp. i also try to reading some relative books, and reading a little kernel code. btw there's a long way to go toward this direction.

Until now, i am not satisfied with myself on the knowledge grasping method. lacking of practice  always lead to a phenomenon, while reading the book, the new learnings are in my mind, but that will be forgotten some days later, and i was so frustrated on that. So special practice is quit necessary for me, and that is what i will concentrate  on the next stage.

To be an excellent system programmer, you should grasp so many things like OS, PL, Compiler Theory, algorithm, Concurrency design, and so on. It's not easy to grasp all of that, keep learning spirit is so import.

The last thing i want to record is about body healthy. Most jobs have occupational deseases, programmers are no exception. My friend Wen bring me to a Sports Rehabilitation Center yesterday, the doctor make a physical assessment test on me, and list some problems like bended vertebral column, uneven shoulders and so on. I cannot believe these will happend on me one day, and i am so young. But anyway, i should not blind my eyes, i have got shoulder pain periodically for a long time, it's body's signal. As we all know, health is the foundation of everything, it's very, very, very necessary to keep exercise, and i plan keep running at Spring, Summer, Autumn, and swimming at Winter the next year.

At 2018, i will slow down my steps, not pursue speed, try to understand every new concept more deeply,
and i will make my own knowledge graph. i hope every new learning will be seen on it.
To be concrete about what i need to learn at the next year, 
* haskell, it is a function programming language, i haven't yet understand the essence of FP until now.  
* SICP, this is a classic book at the computer science field, and this book will teach me how to abstract problem.
* running 300KM, swimming 20 times.
* **last but most important** , i hope i will get married with DaisyWangsi this year.

My English is so poor, btw it is also a practice. Good luck for the new year.
